---
layout: post
title: Week 13 (April 16-18, 2018)
---



On Monday, we will Chapter 14 of the course packet, on parametric probability models.  Main topics include:  
- the binomial distribution.  
- the Poisson distribution.   
- Monte Carlo simulation based on parametric models.  

For Wednesday:   
- the normal distribution.   
- Monte Carlo simulation of stock portfolios.   
  


### Software

Please download the R scripts entitled `parametric_probmodels.R` (for Monday) and `montecarlo_normal.R` (for Wednesday) from the R Scripts tab above.  We will spend a little bit of time going over these in class, and you should finish working through them outside of class.   

For Wednesday, please follow the [walkthrough on Monte Carlo simuluation of investment portfolios](https://github.com/jgscott/learnR/blob/master/montecarlo/montecarlo_intro.md).  A few of the details are different, but you'll see how these can be easily adapted to this week's homework problem.  


### Videos

To complete the first problem of your homework this week, you might find this [video on Bayes' rule](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uPXz0_Vf2T4) helpful.  This is optional, though -- if you feel like you understand Bayes' rule from the course packet enough to do the homework, then you might feel safe skipping this video.  

### Readings

By the end of this week, please finish Chapter 14 of the course packet.  (To remind you, you can safely skip the subsection entitled "Advanced topic: a derivation of the binomial distribution.")  

In addition, please read the article ["One match to go!," by Spiegelhalter and Ng.](http://faculty.chicagobooth.edu/nicholas.polson/teaching/41000/speigelhalter-epl.pdf)  This provides an interesting example of using the Poisson distribution as a parametric probability model, and it will help you on one of your homework problems.


### Exercises  

[Exercises 8 this week]({{ site.baseurl }}/exercises/exercises08-STA371H.pdf) are on Bayes' rule and parametric probability models.   They are due in class on April 23.  




