---
layout: post
title: Week 6 (February 19-21, 2018)
---

Note: I have posted last year's midterm on the [Resources]({{ site.baseurl }}/resources/) page, along with some grading guidelines.  

On Monday, we will go over last week's homework, focusing mainly on the case study on gas prices; see ut2000_boot.R and GasPrices.R scripts from the [R Scripts](({{ site.baseurl }}/rscripts/) tab.  Then we will launch into this week's case study, on modeling the effect of a marketing display on demand for cheese, using data from dozens of grocery stories across the country.  See [Exercises 5]({{ site.baseurl }}/exercises/exercises06-STA371H.pdf) for details on the case study.  

On Wednesday, we will start Chapter 7 of the course packet on hypothesis testing.  Key topics:  
- the logic and step-by-step process of hypothesis testing  
- permutation tests: shuffling the cards  
- using and interpreting p values  


### Software

Outside of class, complete the following R walkthroughs.

For Wednesday of this week (week 6):   
- [A simple hypothesis test](https://github.com/jgscott/learnR/blob/master/hyptest/hyptest.md): an introduction to some important concepts and vocabulary in hypothesis testing.  

For Monday of next week (week 7):  
- [Titanic, revisited](https://github.com/jgscott/learnR/blob/master/titanic/titanic_permtest.md): a simple example of a permutation test in a two-by-two contingency table.  


### Readings

For Wednesday of this week (week 6), please read the first three-quarters of Chapter 7, which encompasses the following two sections:  
- Assessing the evidence for a hypothesis  
- Permutation tests  

For Monday of next week (week 7), please finish Chapter 7 by reading the section on "Hypothesis testing in regression."  


### Videos  

For Wednesday:  
- [Intro to hypothesis testing](https://youtu.be/qJffj8n6o9s): the logic and step by step process of hypothesis testing.  

For Monday of next week:  
- [Permutation tests](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=15rwBts4nQc): a simple example of a permutation test.  



### Exercises  

[Exercises 5 this week]({{ site.baseurl }}/exercises/exercises05-STA371H.pdf) are on multiple regression modeling and hypothesis testing.   They are due in class on February 26.  




